hi my name is an and on this week's
Wellness Wednesday we will be exploring
a deep relaxation practice for people
experiencing chronic pain and I want to
talk a little bit about chronic pain
first because you would think that
people experiencing pain all the time
would build up a tolerance to pain but
actually it's quite the opposite the
brain doesn't work that way so when the
brain is exposed to an initial stimuli
that is in a disease state or injury it
begins to change we call this
neuroplasticity but sometimes those
changes can be
maladaptive and over time the person
will become more sensitive to pain so
even the most benign stimuli will be
painful in their view so it's all about
perception and these neural Pathways in
the brain that I'm talking about in yoga
terminology we could actually equate
those to what we call some scaras which
are Engravings of the past so with the a
practice we are working on adapting and
breaking through old habits of the brain
of the neurons of the S scaras to be
more conducive and helpful for the
person or for you to deal with chronic
pain and maybe even perceive it as less
painful in general so join me for this
Yoga Nidra we be working with left brain
right brain challenging the brain to do
new things and deep relaxation to help
manage pain I want you to get as
comfortable as possible you could be
lying down on the floor and I'll show
you a way to do that with some support
from the bolster and a blanket but if
you'd like to do this in bed to ease
pain then that's totally okay do
anything you need to be as comfortable
as
possible bringing the bolster under the
knees and the blanket under the head do
any Wiggles you need to get the low back
back settle the shoulders and as
symmetrical as possible and if you need
to adjust do
so as you gently close the
eyes finding a pose you can release
into however protecting and honoring
your body and if you feel like you need
to readjust through the practice feel
free
trying to find
Stillness but understanding even that is
dynamic from
within hearing all the sounds around
us far in the
distance up
closer
in the
room perhaps even sensing the sound of
your own breath the feel of your
breath feel the body lying here
breathing the weight of your
body your
bones and muscles surrendering to
gravity
coming to a place of releasing and
witnessing letting go into the surface
below you and throughout this process
witnessing or observing whatever comes
up without Judgment of yourself or
body compassion for the body and
mind allow my words to become yours as
you set an intention for the
practice I will surrender to this
process without
judgment I will surrender to this
judgment and adding any personal
intention or simply mentally soaking in
this
intention and Diving a bit deeper to
your deepest longing your
purpose what is worth living
for it may be for peace love family
being in
service or whatever speaks to
you I'm bringing this statement or
purpose into the present tense as an
affirmation I
am I am
peaceful or I am
peace where I am at
service go with whatever speaks to your
heart
repeating this embodying
this and trusting that this affirmation
is what you need
today allowing yourself to be washed
over with ease and a sense of
safety and cultivating this through
feeling it as a part of you or imagining
being
peaceful perhaps in a comfortable place
or a time in your life or perhaps
imagining being with a person that makes
you feel safe and
comfortable bring yourself to this
sense
safe
comfortable
peaceful and this internal Safe Haven
that you have access to
within recruiting all your senses to
feel to allow even a moment of this a
glimpse of
this and recognizing that this Safe
Haven is always
there that there is a clear blue sky
even when there are gray clouds that
seem to cover and mask the
sky when distractions pain along with fr
frustration worry come to the mind
they're just masking this vast Blue
Sky feeling the breath gently moving
through the
nostrils feeling the lips gently
touching each
other and allowing the jaw to
drop
release droop
even eyes sinking
back allowing worry lines on the
forehead to melt away feel
this feeling the whole head inside and
out
relaxing mind and
brain
release allowing a wave of relaxation to
travel through the
scalp to the neck and
shoulders shoulders release as if a
weight is being taken off the
shoulders
the full attention traveling to the left
shoulder feeling a sense of unraveling
from the inside out of the left
shoulder attention traveling to the left
upper
arm elbow joint
Jo
forearm
rest all the little bones of the
wrist and the
hand and the finger
joints
the whole left
hand still yet filled with radiant
sensation the whole left hand and arm
and shoulder all at
once allowing the attention to
travel to the right shoulder feeling it
unraveling
imagining unraveling from the inside
out right upper
arm elbow
joint forearm
the right wrist and all the little
bones of the
wrist and
hand the bones and joints of the right
fingers
the whole right
hand still yet filled with vibrations
Sensations pulsating
even attention traveling back over to
the left
hand feeling it
fully
and then back over to the right
hand and
left and holding the attention and the
feelings of both hands
simultaneously as if they're holding
sensation
vibration
dancing
flow both hands and
arms
simultaneously the attention traveling
to the chest and heart
center rib
cage front and
back
side to
side inside
out the belly and lower
back and the breath moving the belly
lower
back chest and upper
back a whole
torso without judgment noticing the
whole area level of vibration sensation
that's
present wherever the energy is flowing
and wherever it may feel stagnant if it
does
breathing into the
back and the front of the
Torso attention
traveling to the
pelvis inside
out around the
hips noticing intensity of
vibration
sensation
flow just
witnessing the
thighs front and
back to the knees compassionately
observing the
knees noticing levels of vibration
sensation
from the knees to the
ankles ankles and
feet filled with the attention and
sensation allowing the Consciousness to
travel throughout the
body
feeling the body as a whole breathing
itself automatic and
natural beginning to bring a count to
the
breath counting backwards from 10 so
inhaling exhaling
nine so you'll continue this at your own
pace counting backwards from 10 to
one and if you finish your loose count
simply start back at
keep
counting
alert but
releasing as you
count
for
and letting go of the
count bringing the awareness to the
exhales feeling a sense of heavy with
each
exhale sinking and
surrendering letting go a little bit
more with each
exhale
heavy and then bringing the awareness to
the
inhales
and cultivating a sense of openness and
space with each inhale becoming lighter
and more
spacious as if
floating spaciousness in the breath and
in the
joints and in the
mind
lightness
and then coming back to that sense of
heaviness and focus on the
exhale
release letting
go and once again
lightness
space inhaling
floating each inhale a little bit
lighter and exploring seeing if you can
cultivate that heaviness and
lightness at the same
time sinking and floating simultaneously
in the body in the
mind
and allowing the Consciousness to travel
through the
body notice any
areas the M that the mind is
spontaneously drawn
to perhaps if there are any areas that
feel
stuck heightened sensation
vibration tightness and
tense any particular places that are
speaking to you bringing your attention
to them
fully and observe with
compassion that area or those
areas without judgment to the area or
yourself or to any emotions or feelings
that
suround or may
arise just
noticing witnessing what comes
up if
anything breathe into
that and see if you can imagine the
opposite of that feeling or that
sensation or emotion what would that
feel
like perhaps where do you feel that in
your body maybe a sense of openness
peace
ease perhaps you can imagine or feel it
in the same
place or maybe somewhere else in the
body
notice and cultivate a sense of open
openness
space
ease breathe into
that allow emotions or feelings to arise
along with
that
observing
gently coming back to that previous
feeling that first feeling of perhaps
stuck
tight and tense notice what it feels
like now in the
body just
observe
allow whatever to come up to come
up
and then back to its
opposite
ease
space whatever that opposite may
be seeing if you can allow both to exist
simultaneously existing in the body and
mind
simultaneously imagine and breathe into
that
imagine and feel
yourself living out your
joy your purpose in
life what is that like
what will that be
like imagine and feel that as
truth in the body and
mind and
Beyond
resting in pure spacious
awareness
clear vast blue
skies imagine and feeling open spacious
awareness
as an open-minded
witness without
judgment compassionate
awareness perhaps reaffirming
your deepest truest longing your
purpose I
am feeling this purpose is
truth
feeling the
breath hearing the sound or
sensing the breath
fully hearing other sounds in the
room and outside
becoming more aware of the
environment feeling a part of
it feeling your body
supported the areas of contact
breathing
deeper noticing changes as you begin to
deepen the
breath gently moving the mouth slightly
maybe just ever so
slightly
opening maybe bringing some more
movements into the
face then into the joints of the fingers
and
[Music]
toes and into other joints that feel
like they make need a little bit of
movement as if you're
Awakening and taking your
time slowly come out of
this